Ronaldo is an individual Superstar but
the way he plays his game does not
Elevate the team so what can we learn
from this first of all Adam Grant
business psychologist one of the world's
most influential career and business
thinkers he will help you do the best
work of your life and reach your
professional potential my job is to
study how to make work not suck and help
you become a better version of yourself
so what is some of the myths and
findings about unlocking our hidden
potential these might surprise people it
turns out that that perfectionism is not
all it's cracked up to be it's a risk
factor for Burnout firstborns score
higher on IQ tests but later borns tend
to be more willing to take risks we
don't procrastinate for the reasons we
think we do it's not hard work that
you're avoiding when you procrastinate
it is Decades of research on
brainstorming has shown that if you get
a group of people together to generate
ideas if instead you'd let them work
alone you would have gotten more ideas
and also better ideas when people talk
about imposter syndrome that feeling is
actually pretty rare what's much more
common is imposter thoughts but there
all kinds of benefits of having those
thoughts for example data from 50,000
people found that Chrome or Firefox
users are on average better performers
and they stick around longer than if
you're using Safari or Internet Explorer
give me one more okay well this is the
most vital skill to unlock the hidden
potential of yourself so what you have
to do is before we wrap I have a couple
questions for you I feel why do I feel
nervous you should feel nervous course
uh first question is what's something I
can do better as a podcast guest oh
gosh
quick one this is really really
fascinating to me on the back end of our
YouTube channel it says that
69.9% of you that watch this channel
frequently over the lifetime of this
channel haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button I just wanted to ask you a favor
it helps this channel so much if you
choose to subscribe helps us scale the
guest helps us scale the production and
it makes this show bigger so if I could
ask you for one favor if you've watched
the show before and you've enjoyed it
and you like this episode that you're
currently watching could you please hit
the Subscribe button thank you you so
much and I will repay that gesture by
making sure that everything we do here
gets better and better and better and
better that is a promise I'm willing to
make you do we have a
[Music]
deal
Adam at the very essence of your work
what is it you are trying to do teach or
give people I want to give people the
most useful insights from social science
to help them think more clearly and
critically and make choices that will
build happiness and meaning and success
and if you if you think about your
career over the last couple of decades
what points of inspiration have you
pulled from to give you as an idea of
your sort of academic and and experience
profile that has poured into all of this
work all of these books that sit in
front of me now so I'm an organizational
psychologist by training uh that means
my job is to study how to make work not
suck sometimes is a tall order uh but
I'm interested in uh how we find meaning
and motivation how we can lead more
generous and creative and curious lives
we were talking earlier about the books
that you've written this particular book
in front of me here Originals one of my
team members Grace Miller she went
around our office and gave a copy of
this book to everybody and she wrote a
personalized note inside when you use
this word Originals you yourself are an
original in many respects I I had a a
read through your earliest years and it
was quite clear to me that you
were different in several ways throwing
that question back at you you know I've
got this photo here actually it's my
team printed off for
[Laughter]
me
yeah I was seven years old and I was
obsessed with Nintendo and I I think
there must have been a Saturday where
was uh I must have played for seven or
eight hours straight and then I got
really frustrated when I didn't beat the
game and my mom said like these video
games are just like turning my happy kid
into a
gremlin and I'm worried that they're
frying his brain and she called the
local newspaper and said you should do a
story about how video games are hurting
kids and they said you're right and we
want to profile your child so here I am
uh with a lot of hair no teeth uh just
hooked on a video game and uh you know
what's funny about this is uh if you
read the research on the effects of
video games it turns out that most of
the benefits outweigh the costs uh that
kids who play video games even a few
hours a day end up with more
self-control better working memory uh
more grit and self-discipline uh because
they're constantly having to face and
overcome challenges and build their
resilience and um they're even some
possible mental health benefits so video
games were not the devil as my mom
thought it's funny cuz when I was
reading about those early years where
you seem to be quite
obsessive when faced with a variety of
different challenges it did feel like
you're someone that's committed their
life to trying to beat the game first by
understanding the game and then
understanding the levers you need to
pull to to beat the game is that like an
accurate assessment that's fascinating I
never thought about it that way I think
that that's been a huge part of my
motivation but I think at some point I
got dissatisfied with the idea of
beating the game and I wanted to try to
make the game better interesting I think
maybe to take a specific example um I
remember so I I had I had a moment in
gosh it was
2011 uh I found out I got tenure and
tenure uh so you know essentially a job
for life at at my
University and the question is now what
you can keep just doing research and
teaching
classes and a group of students sat me
down and said you should write a book
because you know you should make your
knowledge accessible to people who
aren't in your class and I felt like I
didn't have anything to say and I I I
was passionate about teaching other
people's ideas and they said no your
research has influenced us and we want
you to make that more widely
available and I think at some point it
hit me that
what they were asking me to do was to
try to redefine the game um that at the
time I think the the lesson I was trying
to teach them was you do not have to be
a selfish taker to succeed um and
actually I'd done a bunch of research
showing that people who were givers who
were happy to help others with no
strings attached uh in the long run
actually outperformed expectations and
my student said to me look what you've
taught us is um we don't have to you
know kind of take a me first uh
competitive attitude all the time uh
achieve a lot of success and then start
giving back we can be sharing our
knowledge we can be making introductions
uh to try to help people connect and
expand their networks we can be giving
others feedback um and solving problems
for them and that can actually
contribute to Our Success you got to get
that message out there and so um you
know making the case that it might be
better to be a giver than a taker was my
first attempt to to change the the the
way we Define the game and and really
the way we think about the rules of
success and that's kind of been my
mission uh as an author um ever since to
ask what are we getting wrong in the way
that we try to play the game and how do
we shift it I want to talk about that
and I I'm a Manchester United fan and I
was thinking I've been debating my
friends in our Manchester United chat
for the last two years about Christiano
Ronaldo and we have two contingents in
the group and this is to your point
about giving and taking we have the one
contingent who think that he was
tremendously beneficial to Manchester
United and really any team that he
touches and then you have
me who believes that on balance when you
look at the M this the stats he actually
has a net negative impact on the team
because he takes more than he gives and
then in reading your book you use the
word Ronaldo so I feel like this is a
wonderful opportunity to ask you about
that and what your thoughts are on those
kinds of sort of self self-centered
individuals in in teams yeah it's it's
such a fascinating Dynamic so I'm not a
Ronaldo expert but the way the way that
he carries himself and the way he plays
his game does not scream give her to me
um and I think the best evidence I've
seen that speaks to this is a study of
NBA basketball teams uh so there are
obviously some differences uh between
basketball and football but I think one
of the commonality is you have high
inner dependence where the team really
depends on every player to play a
critical role and what you see in the
NBA data is that if teams have um more
selfish takers on the team more
narcissists uh they actually fail to
improve over the course of the Season
you end up having a ball hog uh who
doesn't Elevate the team and that's
especially true if the biggest star or
somebody in the core role is very
self-centered and so I think based on
that evidence there's a case to be made
that Ronaldo is is basically you know
he's an individual Superstar but he's
not making other people better and I
think the most meaningful way to succeed
is to help other people succeed I think
a true leader I think Messi is more like
this is somebody who asks how can I make
everybody around me more effective I'm
going to have to say I agree and do you
yeah I do agree and I I spent some time
looking at the numbers and I I credit
the athletic as well for doing a piece
called the Ronaldo effect where they
looked at every team he had joined I
since since he was at Real Madrid and
every single team um according to the
data and I'm kind of paraphrasing here
I'll put a link in the description below
to the article I'm referring to had
fallen in performance when he joined
post His Real Madrid days which means he
went from Juventus and all these all
these clubs and they've all got gotten
worse he's actually gone out now to um
play in the Middle East and that club
was top of the league when he joined
they're now second in the league and
they they had a six-point lead when when
he joined so I think it it speaks to
something about this idea of giving and
taking for for optimal team performance
but Ronaldo in many respects is an
original it's hard to argue with that
you know what I mean I mean look some of
the things he can do um on you know on a
field you just wouldn't expect a human
being to be able to pull it off uh so
there there's definitely extraordinary
skill and I think improvisational
creativity there but yeah we can ask
some questions about is that ultimately
in service of the team what is when you
wrote this book and called it Originals
what did you mean by an original how do
you define that I think about Originals
is people who don't just question the
way we've always done it but actually
take the initiative to create a better
way uh so it's not just about having a
new idea it's about taking action to
create change and I think that's so
important because I think it's it's
often said that that ideation without
execution is just
hallucination there's so many people who
dream up interesting ideas but never do
anything about them and actually I I'll
give you a personal example uh when I
was uh when I was in university I had a
roommate uh this is um
2000 um who had an idea for a social
network and he said what if what if we
could build like an online yearbook
where everybody had access to each
other's profiles and they could
communicate and they could plan parties
and he stayed up all night coding it and
actually building the the basics of the
platform and then he never followed
through and never did anything with it
and you know then what a few years later
Mark Zuckerberg starts Facebook in the
house next door and I could look at that
and say my roommate was an idiot like
why didn't he do anything about it but
guess what I missed that same
opportunity uh 1999
uh I co-founded uh what was called uh
the first online social network uh on
our campus and it was an egroup of we
had connected about an eighth of our
entering uh College freshman class
before uh before we got to campus and we
were all exchanging messages and
connecting and then we got to campus and
we shut it down because we said we all
live in the same town now why do we need
an online community and so I made the
same mistake I was part of a group of
people that had a very original idea and
we did not execute it so the difference
is execution there I think it's the
biggest difference and what does it take
for someone to be an
executioner uh I hope no one becomes an
executioner but maybe an ex an Executor
would work um I think I think the it's
not what I thought I think um I assumed
that you had to be somebody who was
always the first mover uh that you know
if you didn't act on The Social Network
idea in those first few years it was
going to be too too late but as I think
you know you know this already Stephen
but uh I was surprised to find that some
of the best originals are actually
procrastinators that they don't rush in
uh they wait for they wait for their
best idea as opposed to just immediately
implementing their first idea and of
course they're testing and iterating and
experimenting along the way um but I uh
well let's let's go back to my Nintendo
days here I felt like I'm I'm not an
original thinker for a long time and one
day I had a a PhD student G Shin who
came to my office and said you know I
actually think that procrastinating can
make you more creative and G is
incredibly creative and I didn't believe
her I was like no this can't be true and
she said really I have my most creative
ideas when I'm procrastinating and I
didn't believe it because I guess I've
I've always been what psychologist call
a
precrastinator uh which which is
somebody who the moment you have an idea
you want to immediately put it into
practice and so I you know I was always
excited to get things done early and I
was I was proud of being a good finisher
and G said you know I actually think
that's a mistake and I challenged her to
test it and so she went out and and
studied people in various jobs and had
them actually fill out a survey on how
often they procrastinate and then their
supervisors rated their
creativity and then we ran some
experiments together where we tempted
people to procrastinate by um putting
different numbers of of funny YouTube
videos available while they were
supposed to be doing creative tasks and
then uh we got their their creativity
scored by experts and lo and behold it
turned out that people who procrastinate
a little bit are more creative than
people who procrastinate like me what's
your conclusion as to why well we we had
a few hunches at first that that we
tested uh well the first thing I wanted
to know is what happened to the people
who always procrastinated and G was like
I don't know they never filled out my
survey yeah no they they did eventually
fill out the survey and they were they
were also less creative so both extremes
were bad if you never procrastinate if
you always procrastinate you are less
creative than if you sometimes do or if
you do a little and what we found is uh
there a couple of mechanisms at play um
one is that procrastination can lead you
to incubate ideas uh in the back of your
mind uh so uh you have time to connect
the dots see patterns you didn't see
before another is that you end up
getting some distance from the problem
and that allows you to reframe it uh and
look at it from a broader perspective
and so what was interesting in the data
though was that procrastin only boosted
creativity if you were intrinsically
motivated by the problem so if you were
putting it off because you were bored or
you didn't care then it didn't stay
active in the back of your mind but if
you were if you were putting it off
because you were stuck and you hadn't
figured it out yet or you were being
patient and you kind of you wanted to
have 10 or 12 more ideas before you
decided which one to pursue then you
actually got a creative boost so
interesting and i' really relate to it
because do you yeah 100% relate are you
a moderate procrastin yes
100% 100% I think this is important to
say because I think sometimes people
think that I get a lot of messages from
people saying um Steve I'm
procrastinating so much how do you not
procrastinate and I always look at that
and say I'm not the guy to tell you how
to do that because procrastination in my
mind is a bit of a tool um as you said
there's different types of
procrastination that I notice myself
doing one of them is when I get stuck on
something and I find myself picking up
my phone as if I'm a manp possessed I
literally what I'll do is I'll be in the
middle of work and then the next thing
I'm on Instagram and I'm like how did
that happen oh yeah because the part in
this piece of work you got to is um
psychologically difficult for some
reason I don't feel prepared or whatever
and then the other thing I notice myself
procrastinating on is just when I'm
thinking through something I'll end up
just walking around the house I'll end
up cleaning doing the dishes or whatever
and then coming back to the piece of
work later um but I I would say that I'm
definitely a procrastinator that's so
interesting and I think think let's be
clear I'm not encouraging people to
procrastinate more that's that's not the
goal here the goal is just to normalize
procrastination and say it's a natural
part of the creative process everybody
does it sometimes and even though you
expect it to be counterproductive um in
certain situations it can actually lead
you to better ideas and I think there's
a maybe a myth worth busting here uh
research led by fuchia Sur has shown
that uh we don't procrastinate for the
reasons we think we do so a lot of
people think I'm being lazy I'm avoiding
effort um what's wrong with me why don't
I want to work hard but it turns out
it's not hard work that you're avoiding
when you procrastinate it's negative
emotions unpleasant feelings you are
avoiding a set of tasks that makes you
feel frustrated confused bored anxious
um a lot of procrastination is driven by
fear I don't know if I can do this I'm
not sure if I'm up to the challenge and
so I put it off and I I think one of the
best ways to to manage that is to ask
what are the tasks that you consistently
procrastinate on what negative emotions
are they stirring up and then how do you
change
those what you procrastinate on I
procrastinate a lot on editing actually
and revising I love rough drafting it's
very it feels very creative for me um
it's fun to figure out what is the best
evidence say how do I tell the story
that brings the evidence to life and
then the process of you know tinkering
to get each sentence just right it bores
me and so I put it off and I had to
figure out how do I make that more
interesting in order to to stop
procrastinating altogether on it and how
did you do that well one of the one of
the things I did was uh one of my goals
uh in in my recent writing was to to try
to get less abstract and more concrete
MH and so what I started doing was I
started rewriting paragraphs in the
voices of my favorite fiction authors
which was such a fun experiment so how
would Stephen King write this
paragraph uh how would Maggie Smith an
amazing poet how would she write these
sentences and um and that that made it a
creative exercise again as I was doing
my research ahead of this conversation
um I was watching your Ted Talk and one
of the things that really stood out to
me in your Ted Talk was where you start
talking about internet
browsers I immediately checked which
browser I was using and I was using
Google Chrome there go but you make the
case that people who you can tell
someone's I guess creativity I'm paraph
I'm putting words in your mouth here by
which in internet browser they use and
there was a really important message in
there for me so can you tell tell me
about that um exactly what the findings
can tell us yeah I was I was sitting at
a a conference that it helped to
organize and this researcher Michael
hman is giving a presentation he's got
data from 50,000 people and he he knows
um they're filling out a survey and then
he's tracking their job performance huge
range of jobs and he knows um what web
browser they're on uh it's one of the
automatically collected data points and
he's like I wonder I wonder if if
there's anything there and he finds that
he can predict your job per performance
and also your likelihood of staying in
your job from which web browser you're
using this was so weird and he he stood
up and he said I I don't know what's
going on here but it turns out that
Chrome and Firefox users are on average
better performers and they stick around
longer than if you're using Safari or
Internet
Explorer and immediately I I had a hunch
um I'd been studying initiative and
proactivity and being an original
thinker and what hit me was Internet
Explorer and Safari are the defaults
they came pre-installed on your phone or
your
computer in order to get Chrome or
Firefox you had to question the default
and say huh I wonder if there's a better
browser and take a little bit of
initiative and so I start I start you
know proposing this and people are like
great so if I download a better browser
I'm going to be better at my CH no no
it's not it's not about the browser it's
about the resourcefulness to say you
want to be the kind of person who
questions the default and asks if
there's a better way and I think what
happens is um in in people's jobs I've
gone on to study this with with some
colleagues the kind of person who
upgrades their browser is also kind the
kind of person who asks is there a more
creative way to do my job um can I
reinvent the way that we work together
uh and that ultimately not only makes
you better at your job it also helps you
create a job that you want to stay in it
makes sense and so on ongoing BAS is I'm
only going to hire people who have
Mozilla Firefox or Chrome installed on
their browser it should be an interview
question I don't know if I would go that
far you said it so I'm do I think it's
it's a fun question to say okay how did
you like let's let's not limit it to the
browser but talk to me about uh how
you've challenged the status quo in the
past yeah that's a good really good
question
um when we think about Originals who are
the sort of landmark Originals of our
time in your mind
mind uh what domain do we want to talk
about are we talking Tech and business
Tech and business let's go for that I
mean it's hard not to put Elon Musk on
that list uh you can love him or hate
him but uh when it comes to you know
dreaming up the vision and also taking
the initiative then to try to make us a
you know a multiplanetary spa species
with SpaceX uh and build reusable
Rockets which you know NASA had never
really thought to do you know moving us
into an all El electric car future um
yeah I think there are a lot of things
to complain about with elon's leadership
and decision- making and the way he
communicates on the platform formerly
known as Twitter but uh I think he's an
original no doubt about it how does he
fit your profile of an
original I think I think he fits first
and foremost because he challenges the
status quo uh would be the beginning and
then secondly I think he's uh he's
Relentless in trying to make his vision
a reality which is uh I think I think
something that's that's driving some of
his former fans crazy right now some
people might say well he you know he was
like a child prodigy or he was a child
genius so that's why he's so so great do
you agree with that statement or do you
dispute it I I think it's hard to say in
his case I think you know my my job as a
social scientist is to ask what is the
evidence tell us about child prodigies
and it turns out we overestimate them in
a lot of cases because um once you're
you know once something comes naturally
to you you often have a hard time um
thinking about it in original ways so uh
you know you see kids for example who
can play a a Mozart Sonata at age four
and they they drill over and over again
and they're amazingly fast Learners and
practice does make perfect but it
doesn't make new they don't learn how to
write their own original scores they
don't get experienced with failure with
trial and error and so they don't take
enough risks to figure out how do I
invent something that's never existed
before um that's you know that's not
true in every case but it it is
empirically true that most child prod
IES do not become known as adult
Geniuses and I think that's in part
because they don't learn to stretch
their creative muscles because they're
they're overwhelmingly talented so they
don't need to put in the hard graph that
others do and they don't need to fight
for new information in the same way that
others do in some cases they get
rewarded over and over again for
basically just mastering the way
everyone else has always done it and so
they don't they don't learn to break
free from the mold these adult geniuses
then what is it that they have that
child prodigies don't well a lot of it
is um is what what I've come to think of
is character skills um which is a set of
uh of capabilities to put your
principles into practice so there are
often people with hidden potential uh
they um they may not be Naturals at
first uh they could be you know
underdogs or late bloomers or slow
learners but they are um obsessive about
making themselves uncomfortable saying
if I only played in my strengths then
I'm never stretching myself and I'm not
taking Beyond enough new challenges
there's a bunch of research to suggest
they're like sponges uh they're soaking
up lots of information and then trying
to filter what's helpful out uh in and
then kind of rule out what's harmful and
they are um they what I've come to think
of as
imperfectionist which is they're um
they're they're really careful and
disciplined about saying uh when is it
important to aim for the best and when
is it okay to look for good enough
perfectionism is um a topic people talk
about lot and I think everybody it seems
to me that everybody wants to be
considered a perfectionist as if being a
perfectionist is better cuz it what does
that say about my my values it means
that I really care about things being
great it therefore means by way of that
that I think I'm I produce great things
and saying you're a perfectionist is
almost like saying I make great work um
but you're saying that being there are
some there are often times where it's
better to be an imperfectionist that the
Judgment of knowing when something is
good
enough yeah I I think you're under
something here here so you know when
when when you have to answer that
annoying job interview question what's
your greatest weakness it's everyone's
favorite answer I'm too much of a
perfectionist uh it's like Michael Scott
from the American office like I have
weaknesses as a leader I work too hard
and I care too much and yeah people do
think that perfectionism is you know
ultimately more of an asset than a
liability and that's why they they try
to get away with that in the weakness
question but the evidence tells a really
different story uh research led by Tom C
and here in the UK shows that
perfectionism is not all it's cracked up
to be uh it's a risk factor for
Burnout it also if you look at the the
best evidence available perfectionists
do get better grades in school but they
don't actually perform any better in
their jobs why I think the jury is still
out but my hunch based on the the
evidence that's been gathered so far is
that perfectionists uh are good at
school because they know exactly what's
going to be on the test and so they can
cram and memorize until they they're
prepared to Ace the material the real
world is much more ambiguous uh you
don't know exactly what's going to show
up in your performance review uh it's
not entirely clear what work is going to
be valued and perfectionists are
terrified of failure uh they don't want
any flaws they don't want any defects
they want to avoid every mistake and so
they don't take enough risks they focus
very narrowly on the things they know
they can excel at and they don't end up
growing and evolving and improving
enough I wondered if urgency has a
relationship with this as well because
in order to be successful in the real
world you have to be somewhat urgent
which means sometimes you have to say
that's good enough let's go let's move
let's move and I I guess a perfectionist
would if left to their own devices would
try and slow time down so that they
could focus more on this this thing
right now they'd probably never ship
that social network they'd probably
still be in their bedroom in in America
somewhere working on it whereas
Zuckerberg made a thing that was good
enough and shipped it
then learn from that and the iterative
process of making something better is
probably more conducive with success
than just you know the Lean Startup
talks about this a lot like get it out
there and learn from it versus just
incubating it forever yeah this is this
is I think a key Eric Reese point and
it's been backed up by a bunch of
ironically experiments showing that
Founders who experiment more end up
being more successful uh because they're
able to Pivot faster when something
doesn't work and they they get lots of
of Market feedback um and signals on
what's going to be successful and what
isn't and you I know you've you've lived
that but you know it's it's interesting
that you point this out because this
this is a lesson I learned firsthand um
during my days as a an attempted athlete
so after being too short for basketball
and too slow for for football uh I
stumbled onto springboard diving and I I
by the way I I had no business being a
springboard diver I was afraid of
heights uh and also my teammates
nicknamed me Frankenstein because I was
so stiff but I really loved it and I
wanted to get better at it and I was a
perfectionist and I thought that was
going to help me because in diving
you're supposed to get perfect
tense well guess what uh I have my most
basic dive a front dive Pike just jump
up touch your toes go in head first I
wanted to work on perfecting that all
practice and I was working on these tiny
little adjustments that would take me
from a six and a half to a seven and not
ever learning harder Dives and failing
to raise my degree of difficulty and
that really stunted my grow with as a
diver until one day my coach Eric best
pulled me aside and he said you know
Adam there's no such thing as a perfect
10 and I was like wait have the Olympic
announcers been lying to me when they
say a dive was done for perfect tense
what what what's going on here and he
said if you look at the rule book a 10
is for excellence there's no such thing
as a perfect
dive and that really shifted my
perspective and what we did then was we
said look I'm never going to get a 10 on
any dive what we have to do is to
calibrate what's a realistic goal for
each dive so for you know front dive we
started aiming for sevens and I would
want to do 30 of them in practice and
when I did my third one and Eric said
that was a seven it's time to move on
when I was learning a much more
complicated uh front two and a half with
a full twist you do two flips uh 360
turn and then a dive uh the first goal
was we want to do this for twos we we
just want to make it and then I got a
little better at it and we started
aiming for fours and fives on it and
Steve I have to tell you this has been
one of the most useful lessons I've
learned in my career is when I start a
project uh whether it's a book or you
know a podcast season or I'm writing an
oped uh the first thing I do is I ask
what is my target score here and for a
book it's a nine because I'm going to
pour two years of my work life into this
and you know I hope a lot of people will
read it and it's going to be useful to
them so it really matters to do it about
as well as I can when I'm writing a a
post for Instagram I'm pretty content
with a six and a half just above getting
canceled is is my target there but that
that calibration is helpful because I
could spend all day crafting that
Instagram post and then I'll never get
anything done do when you're thinking
about what's good enough through that
framework is part of the equation the
return on time spent because I'm
thinking about the Instagram quote like
if you have a 10 out of 10 Instagram
quote what's the return on that versus a
10 out of 10 book which can completely
as we've seen change someone's entire
life like a 10 out of 10 Ted Talk you
have a phenomenal Ted Talk I think it's
got tens of millions of views and that
can change your entire life in a way
that any Instagram quote I've had some
banging Instagram quotes I got I had a
couple of viral ones and what ends up
happening as everyone just copies what
you said and just posts it and you never
it never really does anything for you
but a 10 out of 10 Ted talk like you've
got or 10 out of 10 books like you know
exceptional books can change your whole
life so maybe part of the equation is to
think about the potential reward from
the investment I I think that's such a
powerful way to frame it well let me let
me react to a couple things first of all
I don't take tens uh so you're you're
being overly generous here uh and I
always want to know what can I do to get
a little bit closer to 10 but I think I
think the thinking about the return on
effort is really valuable and I think
about that Less in terms of like what's
the immediate reward for me and More in
terms of how can I have the greatest
impact for the investment of my time and
I think you're right um you know like
Instagram is a it's a quick hit of
dopamine and it feels really great when
you get a lot of likes and you know
enthusiastic comments on a post and then
it fades really fast and like I don't
know I mean people when I first became
an author people said you know well the
pen is mightier than the The Sword and
you know of course ideas like you have
to be in that world I don't know if the
pen is actually mightier than than the
sword I do know that the ink lasts and
that you know people ask questions about
a book that I wrote a decade ago nobody
asked me about my social media post from
several years ago and um I think
podcasting actually lives somewhere in
between M right we like when we talk um
sometimes idea stick actually there's
some evidence that audio is is more
memorable um and more intimate uh than
what you pick up on the page uh but I
think it's a little more fleeting like I
I don't I don't remember a conversation
I listened to from a few years ago the
same way I remember a book that changed
my world view and so I I put a little
bit more into writing than I do into
talking so interesting I want to talk to
you as well about something you
mentioned earlier which was this idea of
doing difficult things you mentioned it
in passing and the question that was
stored in my brain is what is it that
makes a certain type of person choose
and lean into difficulty and and a
certain type of person lean out of it
because that appears to be one of the
key sort of correlating factors with
success in life your ability to choose
discomfort yeah yeah I I think this is
this is such a vital skill and I want to
I want to be really clear to say it's a
skill right it's not just a personality
trait uh yeah you know some people are
born with a little extra maybe you could
say reserve of willpower or they have
the discipline or or the grit or the
resilience um and it comes naturally to
them but this is very much a learn scale
and I think the the the clearest
demonstration of this for me is in the
the marshmallow test which has been
wildly misunderstood in the last few
years so you're you're familiar probably
with the classic demonstration that
Walter Michelle did uh with his
colleagues where
you take um you take four-year-olds uh
you put a marshmallow in front of them
and you say you can have one now but if
you're willing to wait until I come back
then you can have two and then the
original finding is that if uh the
longer you can delay gratification if a
kid can wait 10 or 15 minutes for the
extra marshmallow uh the better they
score on a standardized test like the
SAT uh a decade later the better grades
they get in School uh there there are
all kinds of benefits of of this delay
gratification scill well in Psychology
recently there's been a controversy
about whether it replicates and uh some
of the replications um have shown that
uh if you have lower socioeconomic
status you struggle at the marshmallow
test it's really disappointing but it's
not at all surprising and in fact that
was um that was part of the original
research is if you grew up in a world of
scarcity um and I know you can relate to
this from from your own lived experience
um you could not afford to wait for the
second marshmallow it might never come
you didn't know if you could trust the
research team to come and and bring you
one and so you didn't have the chance to
practice that skill and learn the habit
but what's really interesting is if you
watch kids who who crush the marshmallow
test it's more skill power than
willpower what they have are simple
strategies that actually make the
Temptation less tempting so you see one
kid will actually um sit on uh he sits
on his hands so that he he's it's a
little slower for him to reach out to
the marshmallow um another covers her
eyes so she doesn't have to look at it
and then there's one kid who actually
smooshes it into a ball and starts
bouncing it so like you don't want to
eat that anymore and this is this is why
I say it's a set of skills um not just a
matter of will because if you have
techniques for making discomfort less
uncomfortable and you know how to get I
guess I guess if you know how to get
comfortable being uncomfortable uh then
you are willing to to go into many
situations where you're a little bit out
of your depth and say yeah this might be
awkward this might be embarrassing but
I'm going to learn something and I guess
you know for me that was that was public
speaking like we were you touched on
giving Ted Talks earlier I would have
never dreamed of of standing in a red
circle I had no business whatsoever
giving a TED Talk um I'm an introvert
I'm extremely shy I was terrified of
public speaking and in one of my first
lectures a student wrote in feedback
afterward that I was so nervous I was
causing them to physically shake in
their
seats and the only way for me to get
over that was to put myself continually
in that situation uh and get used to the
discomfort is that really the key here
cuz I I I'm thinking as you're speaking
about the people who I look up to like
even like a David Goggins who just seem
to be able to hold themselves into in
discomfort more than anybody else I mean
friend of mine called Russ is running
the entire length of Africa at the
moment um from the bottom to the top of
Africa he's running it he's doing like
two marathons a day you know most days
and I'm thinking are these people just
like super humans that were born with
this switch in their brain that I have
to I can only turn on if I have some
kind of traumatic incident or is it is
does the evidence support the fact that
this is a learned skill I think
everything that matters in life is
always a complex interaction of Nature
and nurture but I think we underestimate
the power of nurture in these situations
so Goggins is a great example I mean
he's he's a machine uh was he always
that way no his whole story is about uh
you know feeling like he was he was
vulnerable and wanting to become
somebody where no one could hurt him
right and I think when psychologists
study that uh my favorite theory is
probably called the theory of learned
industriousness which is a
mouthful but what what what is devout is
the idea that if you reward effort if
you reward hard work if you reward
seeking out discomfort then over time
being in uncomfortable situations starts
to take on secondary reward properties
in other words you get a little bit of
pavlovian conditioning where when you've
pushed yourself a little bit past where
you're comfortable that feels good and
you're used to that leading to to
something positive uh and that can
become sort of a self reinforcing cycle
I was thinking as you saying that about
the role trauma plays in people becoming
successful and if we if we take on this
idea that those that push themselves
forward and then get rewarded for it are
more likely to repeat that behavior the
question should probably become who are
the people that got the greatest reward
from pushing themselves out of their
zone of
comfort in my
mind for you to want to push yourself
out of a situation The Situation's
probably not great and I was thinking
about Goggins there what what he had to
do and many people that I saw on this
podcast and speak to it appears to be
the case a lot lot of time that there
was something traumatic or difficult
going on in their home life with their
parents maybe that forced them or pushed
them to pursue something out of their
zone of comfort it actually often for
pushes them off the the road um most
frequently traveled and they become like
an original because they went through
the shrubs and the prickly bushes yeah
is there evidence to support that it is
helpful in becoming an original so it's
complicated because I think in a lot of
the examples we look at there's a surv a
survivorship bias we see the people who
manag to overcome adversity we don't see
all the people who are broken by it mhm
and so we always have to pause and ask
uh is this is this causal
or is it just revealing that certain
people who happen to face adversity uh
and were able to take something out of
that you know we're we're growing from
that I do think what what we know is
that resilience is underestimated uh as
a general rule uh so uh if you look at
for example um rates of post-traumatic
stress disorder they are lower when
people go through trauma than people's
reports of post-traumatic growth saying
look I I wouldn't wish this on myself or
anyone else it was a terrible experience
but I had to grow from it and it made me
better or stronger in some way uh that's
more common uh than being you know
completely paralyzed um or Shattered by
traumatic experiences I think the other
thing we know is that um resilience is
not in an an individual skill um it's
not a muscle you work on just by
yourself it requires a support system
which I think of as scaffolding um a
temporary structure that helps you scale
a height you couldn't reach on your own
and
I think a lot of what that looks like is
having a parent a mentor a coach who
believes in your potential um and not
only you know helps you find the
motivation but then gives you the tools
uh to to bounce forward from the the
hardship you faced when we talking about
this point of nurture is I am the
youngest of four kids and in your work
you discuss how that can be
consequential in my relationship with
risk and um convention and all of those
things
what does the data say about siblings
and their and how the order in which
they're born can determine
their character skills okay we need a
giant disclaimer on this the science of
birth order is a mess uh it's full of
conflicting findings uh a lot of the
world's leading experts don't agree on
the patterns and what I'm going to tell
you is I think there are two patterns
that have very consistent evidence
across large samples and rigorous
studies but they are tiny effects tiny
so they don't say anything about you and
your future possibilities um their
patterns across very very big samples so
let me let me start with the bad news
for you Steve which is God uh on average
firstborns score slightly higher in IQ
tests than their younger siblings agree
to disagree I'm joking you're welcome to
disagree on that no I'm joking I'm
joking and that that does uh that does
make sense the major mechanism that
seems to explain it is what's called the
tutor effect which is if if you're the
firstborn and you have younger siblings
you end up teaching them a lot oh and
when you explain things you remember
them better and you understand them
better the best way to learn something
is to teach it uh and the last born
doesn't have a younger sibling to teach
and so sometimes they just miss out on
that opportunity tiny tiny difference on
average you will find many brilliant
laterborns uh many average intelligence
firstborns so don't don't take anything
from that but it's an interesting
finding to the point that you raised the
other the other finding is that uh
laterborns tend to be more willing to
take risks and become
Originals uh and my my actually my
favorite example of this comes from uh
research Frank Solway did on Sports so
this is a study of every um pair of
brothers who ever played Major League
Baseball so you've got two siblings same
family same parents same upbringing uh
they all they both make it to the pros
actually uh sometimes there's even a
trio uh and the question is which
brother takes more risks when it comes
to steal a base uh which you know in in
American baseball is is one of the
riskiest things you can do because it's
very easy to to get to get out uh
because you have to basically outrun a
ball that's flying in the air uh and you
have to outsmart a pitcher and uh uh a
guy who's ready to catch the ball and it
turns out that the laterborns are much
more likely to take those risks they're
more likely to try to steal a base and
they are also more likely to um to
succeed in stealing a base so you're a
last born why like where does this
pension for risk Tak can come from
what's what's your hunch about the
mechanisms oh gosh um oh I know what it
is I know what it is cuz I saw it in
your writing and I was like that's it
it's my parents gave me way more freedom
when I was 10 years old and I I say this
a lot but when I was 10 years old if I
left the house and I didn't come home
for two days there was no consequences
whereas I watched my sister try that
when she was that same age and it was it
was like we would call the police if she
wasn't if she wasn't home before like
10: would call the police and as they
went through the cycle of having kids
and they got to the fourth one it was
almost like I say this all time it was
like they had assumed I was the age of
the others and they assumed that their
job of parenting had been done and
that's what I attribute it to because in
that Independence in that void you can
start to experiment and you can start to
learn and take risks and then you get
the feedback from those experiments
which for me was starting businesses at
12 13 14 first kid in our family to not
go to university um so it yeah it made a
lot of sense when I read about it and I
also do believe that my all my siblings
have a higher IQ than me I think if we
did an IQ test I think every one of my
siblings would beat me on it and I think
they would all agree my brothers my
brothers are geniuses compared to me
Jason Works Jason my The Sibling that's
a year older than me um went to two of
the best universities Etc he's a genius
he's much smarter than I am but he will
even say that what he learned from me
was risk he says this he said it this
Christmas he was like when you came to
my house at um when I was 18 and I slept
on his sofa um he goes he was in a
university he was off to get you know
really really great job as like an
actuary he had gone to the London School
of Economics to study that and I was hit
this Dropout sleeping on his sofa
because I'd stopped by London and he
said to me at Christmas he was like the
fact that you weren't
concerned about your future yeah it
inspired me which ultimately led him to
quit his job in the city he was like I
learned from you risk taking wow um and
yeah so that's amazing because you
benefited from extra freedom and
Independence and then you were able to
actually pay that back
to an older brother I I think for me
that's also the most compelling reason
why laterborns end up taking more risks
and trying new things there is another
theory that has some support uh that I
think might be an additional piece of
the story which is um usually the the
firstborn ends up sort of impressing
parents by being a conventional achiever
and then the thinking is that that Niche
is filled and as a later born you got to
find a way to stand out like well
getting good grades in school is not
going to differentiate me from my older
siblings they're always going to be
ahead of me so let me try something
that's a little bit Road l traveled oh I
completely relate to that as well
risk-taking it is often believe that
risk taking is a key factor in what
makes entrepreneurs successful in their
life but your research and your work in
Originals on in chapter one page 17 kind
of starts to debunk that myth in a I
think a really liberating way this this
is good news for me as as somebody who's
not a big risk taker uh it turns out
that risk takers are more likely to
become entrepreneurs but the most
successful entrepreneurs don't love risk
um they take they take cautious risks
and they're they're constantly trying to
figure out how to reduce the downside um
and increase the upside you know I guess
this goes into two directions One
Direction is to say if you never take a
risk that's actually a risky way to live
your life it's like um it's like
building a stock portfolio where you
only invest in safe predictable mutual
funds no you need a balanced portfolio
um you're actually safer if you have
some risky Investments and some more
cautious Investments and I think life is
like that too I think on the the other
side of that though you don't want to
just be throwing caution to the wind and
making a bunch of dumb bets uh what you
want to do is you want to figure out
what's the probability of this unproven
idea succeeding and then do whatever you
can to raise those
odds
interesting because that's not the story
we hear in the movies and in the you
know it and I guess that's part because
we want to frame ourselves as Heroes
when we tell our own story and so
framing oneself as a hero involves
showing a huge uh courageous risk you
took whereas really when I think if you
you're saying if you zoom in you'll see
how the best entrepreneurs Protected
Their downside of that risk yeah yeah I
think that's critical so let's go back
to Elan for as an example uh I had
dinner with him a few years ago um sort
of interested in what what can we learn
from from what's worked for him uh and
then also what hasn't and I was talking
to him about risk-taking and he you know
he was talking a lot about wanting to to
put the first humans on
Mars and I said how how could you
possibly be willing to to gamble on that
it seems so unlikely and he said well
when I you know when I first started I
knew it was extremely low probability
and so that wasn't the original mission
for SpaceX the mission was I want to
build a reusable rocket and that's much
more real real istic and I can get
people on board with that and I can get
a government contract to do that and I
said okay quantify this for me like what
are the odds that that you're going to
make it to Mars in your lifetime and he
said well you know a couple years ago uh
I would have said I don't know seven
8% I'm like and and you're doing this
despite that and he said well no no the
probability has gone way up since
then I'm like okay tell me more and he
said I'd probably say 11% chance
now this is firing you up he's like come
on that's double digits like we're we're
close to reality but I think that
calculus of saying I've got to know that
this is unrealistic and I've got to have
a sideb which is something that can
build me a viable company um and you
know reusable Rockets are what did it um
that's what made SpaceX work it's not
the mission the moon shot or actually
it's a Mars
shot uh that that's not what what
ultimately allowed them to do what they
do now is is that in part on his behalf
a bit of a framing thing
to um as you said get people on board
because I think about nurlink in the
same way when when he first started
talking about neuralink it was all about
interfacing with AI and our need the AI
is coming and we need a way to be able
to interface with it because it's going
to be so much smarter than us that we
basically need to become these cyborgs
and in more recent times he's focused on
the ability to give um people who have
lost access to their limbs the use of
their limbs back and I was thinking
about the transition there he's done in
messaging
the latter this idea of helping people
who are disabled regain their ability
seems to be an idea that people will get
on board with and will fund the other
idea of interfacing with AI and us
becoming cyborgs doesn't appear to me
like something people would get behind
and fund no they either don't get it or
they don't want it yeah yeah exactly not
for me yeah this is this is a common
challenge for for original thinkers is
sometimes their bold Visions are just
not palatable to other people uh and
there's a term that I love that uh
Deborah Myerson and Moran Scully coin
they talk about being a tempered
radical which I think is a great phrase
to say take your your big extreme idea
and try to moderate it to make it a
little bit more familiar and a little
bit closer to what other people think is
plausible and desirable and then if you
do that successfully uh you can smuggle
your vision inside a troan horse and
that's all about bringing them with
you interesting let's talk about people
then people in teams um so one of my
real obsessions is is the topic of Team
culture and it's something that you
write about um in part two of your book
team
culture what are we what are we
generally missing about what it takes to
be and to build a great team what are
what are some of the sort of first myths
that come to mind about the greatest
teams that you your work has
debunked well this is this is one of the
big Topics in in my world of
organizational psychology and there are
I think a bunch of findings that that
might surprise people the the first one
is that uh we Elevate the wrong people
to leadership rols
consistently uh there's research on
What's called the babble effect which is
the idea that the more you talk in a
meeting the more likely you are to get
selected as the leader of a team so we
reward people who dominate the
conversation even though they are not
actually better at leadership and often
they're worse because they fail to
include and learn from the voices around
them in the room they're so obsessed
with being the smartest person in the
room that they fail to make the room
smarter and I think what happens there
is that we're consistently mistaking
their confidence for
competence so we need to change that the
people I want to elevate into leadership
roles uh are are basically people who
bring generosity and humility to the
table uh generosity is about saying I'm
going to put my mission above my ego and
I'm going to try to to make everybody in
the room better and I guess it's a form
of servant leadership and humility is
about saying it's my job to know what I
don't know and try to learn from every
single person I work with and I think
the idea of being a lifelong learner is
is something we throw around a lot but
we don't take seriously I think part of
being a lifelong learner is recognizing
that every person you meet is a
potential
teacher every single collaborator of
yours has lived experiences you you
haven't has expertise that you don't and
if you fail to realize that you are
stunting your own progress so I think
we've got to get humble givers into
leadership roles because they're there
to make the team successful I've always
had a suspicion that based on the size
of the company and where it is in its
life cycle that a slightly different
culture is required and and in your work
you talk about these commitment cultures
now a commitment culture is that a cult
I hope not the good ones aren't okay so
you're you're anticipating the baron and
Hannon research on uh hundreds of of
startups for 15 years and they compare
cultural blueprints where some Founders
say I going to build a star culture I
want to hire the biggest Geniuses and
the best talent uh and that's that's
what's going to make us grade and other
Founders say no I want to be about
commitment I'm going to focus first and
foremost about do you fit the culture do
you live our mission and breathe our
values and then you run the horse race
and ask which of which approach is more
successful from a culture perspective
and lo and behold the commitment
cultures win they are dramatically less
likely to fail significantly more likely
to go public and you think we're good
like we've we've hired people who are
all in on our company they made us a
wildly successful startup and then guess
what after these companies go public
they grow at slower
rates
why there's a a major risk that if you
are hiring on culture fit you are then
saying I'm only going to bring in people
who are similar to each other and you
end up weeding out diversity of thought
and background and promoting group think
interesting so okay you're all a little
bit too close to this the same painting
you're you're replicating what's already
working for you and becoming more and
more homogeneous and this is not to say
the culture fit is inherently bad um you
do want people align on your three to
five core values and that's important
the mistake we make is when we look at
fit we think about well I want a bunch
of people with the same personality
traits and I want a bunch of people who
you know who went to the same College uh
or you know studied the same subject and
then you end up with a really narrow
band of expertise and that leads you to
stagnate how important do you think the
culture you're in is on your own chance
of success and performance I often think
this I think we've we've been lucky even
as a podcast team to be in a great
culture and I play out the scenario if
you took one of our team members and
maybe move them to another culture how
much would that impact that team
member's personal performance and chance
of success oh actually there's H Boris
gyberg studies this uh he studies what
happens when you're a star in one
culture and then you move to a new
organization uh so he studied this with
uh with uh Wall Street security analysts
uh so Finance Finance professionals
turns out if you were a star performer
your current fir
and you leave for a new firm it takes
you on average 5 years to recover your
star
performance unless you take your team
with you and then you maintain your star
status from day one what Boris argues is
that we underestimate the importance of
the people we rely on um to to do our
best work and this is not unique at all
to Wall Street you can see it in
research on um on cardiac surgeons where
um you know how um it's it's pretty
common for surgeons to operate at
multiple hospitals mhm uh well it turns
out that the more practice you have at
hospital a the lower your patient
mortality rate is at hospital a but then
when you go over to hospital B later
that week it's as if as if you haven't
practiced at all because you're with a
different team uh they don't know your
strengths and weaknesses you haven't
built effective routines together um you
are much more interdependent than you
realize even if you think you're an
individual expert uh you can see it in
sports too uh it takes uh Pro basket
teams uh 3 to four years on average uh
even if you've recruited a really
talented team to maximize their their
odds of winning a championship because
they just haven't figured out how to be
effective together there's even um there
was a NASA simulation years ago where uh
you had to do a you had to go through a
flight simulator and uh some Crews were
uh were exhausted they just come off of
a you know a multile multi-day um sleep
deprived journey and others were
well-rested and it turned out that the
um the well-rested Crews who were
strangers actually made more potentially
catastrophic errors than exhausted Crews
that had just flown together and having
a little bit of shared experience was
enough to to compensate for the lack of
sleep now I'm not suggesting that we
should have pilots fly together and only
sleep for you know two hours a night but
the idea that that your history together
was even more important than how alert
you were is something I think we ought
to take really
seriously gosh it's like a double- Ed SW
sword though because so your history
together matters so you want to be you
want to be with a familiar group of
people however if you're too familiar
with them you're not going to come up
with original ideas and be as creative
and and Innovative as possible so that
it's a balancing act between familiarity
and Novelty
in the by way of introducing new members
to the group that have new ideas as it
relates to business that's exactly right
okay and you you actually see this in
the sports data um after that you know
three or four years of experience
together uh the benefit of shared
experience start to level off and maybe
the players get old part of it but their
routines also become really predictable
predictable to the opposition as well in
the context of sports other coaches can
go they always do this they always do it
like this this is how we'll defend
against it same thing is true in
business I think it's one of the reasons
why so much Innovation and disruption
comes from the outside because inside an
organization people get so attached to
the way we've always done it uh they
fall victim to what's called cognitive
entrenchment where they start to take
for granted assumptions that need to be
questioned um and need to bring in
outside Talent Fresh perspectives or
rotate yourself um shift your your
country shift Your Role um shift the the
group of people you're working with go
learn a new skill set in order to to get
out of that entrenchment when you think
about and when you study companies and
people that innovate and let's just
focus specifically stay on the idea of
teams that
innovate let's just I mean bring it
right back to the context of even you
know this podcast this podcast team is
actually about 30 32 33 people now
across the whole sort of business of the
dire of a CEO um it's going well you
know we we we do well better than well
yeah yeah yeah it's going well it's like
you know we've done a good job I think
that's that's that's fair to say but
there's a risk with that which is when
you've been right several times you can
start to get a little bit creatively
complacent and
also I saw I think it was Morgan H's
book same as ever some research that
shows when you are succeeding when
you're like number one at the thing you
do teams kind of switch off creatively
and they they go into a defense mode
which is okay this is how we've always
done it and it got us to here so let's
just keep doing it that way but to
self-d disrupt almost doesn't make sense
you know and so I'm my question to you
is from what you understand what is the
best way to keep a team like ours
continually striving for the next thing
even when the outside world thinks you
do a lot of things right best example
I've ever seen was uh in a podcast
episode I did at Pixar a few years ago
so let's go back to 2000 Pixar is at the
top of its game they've completely
reinvented The Way That animated movies
are made we we used to think you had to
draw them now they do them by computer
um Toy Story is a huge hit uh they've
got monsters they've got talking bugs
and uh you know they're riding as high
as you can in the entertainment industry
and what most companies would do in that
situation is they would rest on their
Laurels and keep making films the way
they've done them because like you said
like we we should double down on our
success we know our core competencies
we're getting a ton of rewards for it
well Steve Jobs and Ed kull uh who you
know were were running the show were not
content to rest on their Laurels and
they knew that when you're succeeding
you actually have the most lack capacity
to disrupt yourself uh which is of
course when most leaders are least
likely to do it because they don't think
they need to and they said we've got to
we've got to shake things up so they
went and hired an unproven director uh
named Brad Bird he was coming off a
commercial
flop uh it uh his previous film had had
been you know just a huge disappointment
uh in terms of box office returns and
Brad came into Pixar and his charge was
to change the way that they made it
animated films why uh because they
wanted to keep getting better and they
wanted to keep innovating and Brad came
in with a vision that he was told was
crazy for a new animated film he was
told it was going to cost half a billion
US Dollars and take 10 years to make
which is just a non-starter if you're a
film studio and Brad got frustrated and
he said all right you know what give me
he said I want the Pirates I want the
black sheep I want people who are
dissatisfied disagreeable and
disgruntled and I'm going to build a a
band of Misfits to try to prove that
this movie can be made and that group
ends up finishing in a three-year period
uh so they shaved a year at least off
the original expected time uh they end
up coming in under budget uh becomes
Pixar's most successful film ever uh
wins uh wins them some major Awards uh
you might have seen it it's called The
Incredibles and what I think is
incredible no intended about that story
is a couple things one you know just the
the will to to break something that's
not broken deliberately I think that's
huge
number two uh what Brad does is he
discovers that there's a particular kind
of disagreeableness that's really
valuable is not just being cranky and
ornery for the sake of it it's not being
a a complainer brad says I want people
who are like racing cars stuck in a
garage like they're they're just being
stifled and you know shot down and I'm
going to open the garage and let them go
um so in my give or taker framework I
would call those people disagreeable
givers uh they're Gruff and tough on the
surface uh but they're doing it because
they want to help and they have ideas to
make things better and they're they're
not content to just stick with the
status quo and there there's a bunch of
research to suggest that people who are
highly disagreeable um if they're doing
if if they're challenging people because
they care uh they they actually end up
driving more Innovation and so I've I've
actually started advising leaders that
most of us know the value of a support
network and surrounding ourselves with
mentors and colleagues who who have our
back but what you actually need to get
better is a challenge Network uh a group
of thoughtful critics who you trust to
hold up a mirror so you can see your own
blind spots more clearly and Steve this
is not the norm when I work with leaders
and Founders um I I I think it's pretty
common actually um I I I don't want to
name a specific example here but I I
have interacted with a fair number of of
entrepreneurs and CEOs who I have this
vision of them coming into the office
one morning and saying good morning and
a bunch of people go great
point
it's a scary way to live but you know
this as you gain status and power it's
harder to get people to tell you the
truth and that's why those disagreeable
givers who are willing to challenge you
are so
valuable how how do you um cultivate
that what can you do to cultivate a
circle of dis disagreeable givers or
just people that are going to tell you
the truth well the first thing you do is
you pay attention to to who has actually
been willing to push you mhm uh and you
let them know that they play that role
in your life so I I've actually done
this in the past couple years um I've
had people who you know tore apart book
drafts for me people who told me I
needed to go back to the drawing board
on a an early version of a TED Talk and
I've gone to them and I've said hey you
may not know this but I actually
consider you a founding member of my
challenge Network First Response what
the hell is a challenge
Network because disagreeable people
always talk like that now they don't but
uh I had to explain it and I said I know
I haven't always taken your you know
your challenges well sometimes I've been
defensive other times I've just been
dismissive because I'm on a path and
what you brought was diverting and I
regret that because I know I need you
you have to push me to think again and
question the way I do things so if I
ever you know if you ever hesitate
because you're afraid of hurting my
feelings or damaging our relationship
don't the only way you can hurt me is by
not telling me the truth and the
particular conversation I found really
powerful there is to let people know
that they often feel a a tension between
honesty and
loyalty I don't I don't see a trade-off
there for me honesty is the highest
expression of loyalty the more candid
and direct you are with me the more I
will value your input and sometimes
that's enough in other cases I have to
go a step further which is something
that that I I explored in some research
turns out that sometimes asking people
for input uh doesn't get them over the
hurdle uh they're still afraid or they
think it's just an exercise in futility
so what you have to do is criticize
yourself out loud and and say here are
the things I think I'm bad at here are
the current shortcomings I see in my
work and what you're doing then is
you're not just claiming your open to
feedback you are proving you can take
it so in that instance where you critic
criticize yourself out loud and you say
God I'm so bad at this or that is in
part why you're doing that to make it a
safe space for them to then build on
what you've just said yeah you're trying
to create psychological safety as Amy
Edmonson describes it and in some
research I did with Constantino cerus uh
we found that When leaders sat down and
you know didn't just say I want to know
what I can do better at but said here
are the things that I think I need to
work on a year later when they were
randomly assigned to do that their teams
actually uh were were more willing to
speak up and and challenge them and and
give them constructive criticism and I
think part of what happens when you do
that and I I actually do this in my own
classroom um I uh I I read students some
of the toughest feedback I've gotten in
my career one said that I reminded uh I
reminded them of a
muppet never told me which Muppet thanks
for that uh there was another where um a
military leader had written I gained
nothing from this session but I trust
the instructor got useful
Insight not fun at the time but what I
find is when I read those comments out
loud afterward I hear much more honest
input from my students they tell me
things that they think are not going
well in my class they give me new ideas
for improvement
and I think what I've done there is I'm
showing that I take my work really
seriously I don't take myself that
seriously and you know I'm sort of
unoffendable is the goal and um
sometimes they build like they'll you
know they'll they'll say yeah we see
that weakness and you still need to work
on it and other times they say well
maybe you have a blind spot you didn't
tell us about this area where you're
struggling but we see this here Steve I
I have to say a lot of people get the
concept that are afraid to do it
because they don't want to admit what
they're bad at to the people who who
work with them well guess what the
people you work with every day they
already know what you're bad at you
can't hide it from them right so you
might as well get credit for having the
self-awareness to see it and the
humility and integrity to admit it out
loud on this point of teams as well um
and groups of people the other thing
that was quite challenging that I that I
loved that you discuss is this idea that
brainstorming doesn't really work well
and to maximize collective intelligence
we get more and better ideas when we
work alone and again it kind of there's
a through line here with what we said at
the start about procrastination and the
use of boredom one thing that's really
helped me recently that I wanted to
share and see if there's any resonance
with you is when I have ideas usually
when I'm alone to be fair um or when I'm
reading or when I'm thinking or writing
about something I then write them out
into memos now which is just like a
couple of pages for me to understand
them and then I share them with people
before I didn't do that
before I was a bit more of a pepper I.E
I take something I was thinking about
and just pepper it into like a group
chat whereas now having time and space
to write about it seems to be helping me
to refine the ideas better but just
helps me to come up with better ideas my
question here is about how groups of
people form their best ideas and what
you would suggest based on the research
well you're you're living the evidence
so let's uh yeah let's let's unpack this
a little bit I think Decades of research
on brainstorming have shown that if you
get a group of people together to
generate ideas if instead you would put
them in separate rooms and let them work
alone you would have gotten more ideas
and also better
ideas a lot of people are surprised by
this and there are a few reasons behind
it that that have good support one is
called production blocking we can't all
talk at once some ideas get lost two is
ego threat I don't want to look like an
idiot so I bite my tongue on my most
unconventional ideas and then three is
Conformity pressure which is sometimes
called the hippo effect um my favorite
acronym hippo stands for the highest
paid person's
opinion interesting as soon as that's
known people jump on the bandwagon uh
and you get too much convergent thinking
not enough Divergent
thinking how do we get past that in in
organizations what is it about anonymity
with ideas it can be if you're in a low
psychological safety environment where
people are worried about their
reputations then yes Anonymous ideas
help but I want to get to a point where
people are willing to put their names on
their ideas so I want to go in the
direction that that you've gone
personally which is uh psychologists
recommend brain writing as an
alternative to
brainstorming what you do is you
recognize that writing is not just a
tool for communicating it's a tool for
thinking when you write out your
thoughts you can't get away with a
half-baked idea that kind of is sold by
your charisma you actually get tested on
your logic and what you do is recognize
that individuals are more creative than
groups they have more brilliant ideas
they have more variety than groups to
but they also have more terrible ideas
than groups and so we need a process to
to generate variety and then filter
toward quality and what brain writing
does is you have everybody write down
their own separate ideas then you
collect them and you have everyone do
independent ratings so you get their
their judgment preserved before they're
biased by what their peers think then
once you have all the ratings uh you
take the most promising ideas and You
Begin developing and refining those and
what you're trying to do then is to take
the wisdom of crowds to to make the the
ideas with high potential succeed and I
think for me brainwriting is one of the
best ways to unlock the hidden potential
in the group because it is not the
loudest talker it's not the most
enthusiastic speaker who necessarily has
the most compelling
ideas I was thinking as you're talking
about how I might Implement that into
some of my teams and I was thinking
about so how would you create anonymity
of the the submission of the idea
without people having some idea based on
the way the person's writing who it is
you know what I mean because there's
some people in art I think in my teams
that you'd be able to just know from how
they wrote something who it was um
here's an idea yeah thinking out loud uh
one thing I've tried from time to time
is uh I've paired people up to then
write down and Pitch each other's ideas
oh okay so you're separating the the
person who had the thought from the way
it's being communicated and I I wonder
if rotating a little bit that way could
help oh interesting okay so you could
have one person read out all the ideas
basically to a full group and then
having them right independently or yeah
interesting potential why did you why
did you write this book hidden
potential I I wrote it I wrote it really
for two reasons um one is that I saw in
the evidence that we underestimate
potential in ourselves and others
consistently we think you can judge
where people will land from where they
start but as we talked about with
prodigies earlier um you can't always do
that and I'd read some some classic
research on world-class musicians
artists athletes and scientists showing
that they rarely stood out as better
than their peers early on uh their early
teachers their coaches even their own
parents didn't know how much potential
they had and when they did stand out it
was not for unusual ability it was for
unusual motivation uh they were they
were driven they were passionate and I I
wanted to dispel the myth that if you're
not instantly good at something you
should walk away from it and only play
to your strength
and I wanted to do that in part because
it wasn't just the evidence that spoke
to me I live this right I was a terrible
springboard diver when I started I never
would have imagined that I was going to
be a Junior Olympic National
qualifier um I as we talked about I
really struggled with public speaking I
didn't expect to go there and I also um
I failed the writing test uh when I
arrived at University and was assigned
to remedial writing and here I am an
author and so I've lived hidden
potential along with studying it and I I
felt like it was time to put those ideas
out into the world do you really do you
believe that your potential exists
somewhere or do you think it's something
that you create every every time you
push yourself can I say both yeah yeah
yeah it's probably the yeah that makes a
lot of sense I've always wondered this
I've always wondered if I'm if my life
is the pursuit of my potential or if my
life is the creation of my potential
that that is a brilliant question I love
the way you frame that I I think it's
always a little bit of both because we
all have different know skills and
strengths that come naturally to us and
different challenges uh that that are
hardwired and so you could say like I I
had a ceiling on my athletic ability
right like I there just there's certain
things I'm never going to be able to do
uh as as badly as I wanted to become a
professional athlete uh but a big part
of of me learning how to become a decent
diver was was trying to raise that
ceiling and uh after I retired uh Eric
my coach said to me that I got farther
with less Talent than any diver he'
coached which I wasn't wasn't sure if
that was a compliment but it actually is
a huge compliment because he felt like
i' you know I'd stretched my
capabilities and I think for me hitting
potential is about realizing that we all
have capacities for growth that are
invisible to us and sometimes to the
people around
us as it relates to unlocking that
growth and being that overachiever that
you were as it relates to
diving is there anything we haven't
discussed that is critical to unlocking
that potential I think so uh I think
throw some of those things at me yeah so
one of my favorites so can I tell you a
little story
please one of one of my other challenges
is as a diver was uh I was afraid of
heights and I also was afraid of extreme
pain there's nothing there's there's
nothing fun about you know doing a belly
flop uh when you know you're up on a 3
meter springboard never mind a 10 meter
platform which I avoided like the
plague and I was especially afraid when
it was time to try a new dive because I
was going to hurl myself into midair
Spin and twist get lost and there's a
high probability that you're going to
smack so I would stand there at the end
of the board shaking uh I would waste a
lot of time in practice uh sometimes it
would be 5 minutes 10 minutes one
practice I stood on the board for 45
minutes and I wouldn't go I was wasting
my time I was wasting my team teammates
time I was wasting my coach's time and
Eric finally said to me he said Adam are
you going to do this
dive and I'm like ever like yes of
course one day I will do this dive and
he said great then what are you waiting
for
and I've heard that voice in my head
every time I've been afraid to take a
risk and I've been hesitating to go
outside my comfort zone I heard it when
I was afraid to write my first book and
I didn't think I was ready I heard it
when I was considering giving a TED Talk
and I didn't feel capable of doing a
good job at it I think the lesson I took
from that was I thought that I had to
build my confidence in order to take the
leap and that was completely backward
you build your confidence by taking the
leap and so I I was kind of waiting for
the magic day when I felt ready and the
reality is you become ready by putting
yourself in situations that you don't
think you can excel at
yet do you think that's enough to push
people off the
board as as a sort of an analogy for
Life generally because there'll be so
many people that have just heard that
and hear just hear hearing that will
enable some of them to take the leap and
then there's this other stubborn crowd
that will hear that that will understand
it that will believe it's true and they
still won't take the leap they still
will stay in that job they still won't
push themselves beyond their zone of
comfort is there anything else that's
required to get th those people over the
edge or is it too individualistic to to
know well I think one thing that that
group of people might have in common is
a pervasive impostor syndrome MH right
the the sense that
well first of all let's when people talk
about imposter syndrome sometimes they
say okay like I'm a fraud and it's only
a matter of minutes until everybody
finds out and that feeling is actually
pretty rare what's much more common if
you look at the research of Bim Tuk is
impostor thoughts everyday doubts about
am I as good as other people think I am
am I ready for this world that other
people are encouraging me to take on um
can I afford to you know to quit my job
and and try becoming an entrepreneur and
what the research suggests is that there
are actually some surprising benefits of
having those impostor thoughts Bima
finds she studies uh medical
professionals investment professionals
military cadets students that when you
have more frequent imposter thoughts
they actually can become fuel to
motivate you to persist toward your
goals and the reason that happens is
there's a gap between what other people
think you're capable of and what you
feel prepared for and you realize okay
I've got to put in extra effort and I've
got to be better at listening to other
people and learning from them in order
to close the gap so bima's advice is
when you feel like an impostor you
should recognize that other people think
you're pretty pretty amazing and now all
right let's live up to those
expectations and I would go even further
I would say it's it's really tempting to
to trust your own judgment of your
abilities above other people because you
know more about yourself than any other
human can possibly know about you but
here's the problem you know too much
about yourself to compare yourself
accurately to others and you're also not
neutral right you can't be objective and
independent and unbiased so I think what
you want to do is you want to you want
to see yourself Through The Eyes of
people who know you well and if multiple
people believe in you it's probably time
to believe
them give me one more let's make this
the closing one as it relates to
realizing our
potential and unlocking our hidden
potential which is you know if if I if I
was able to achieve anything with this
podcast over the time that we ran it
allowing people to realize and pursue
their potential I think would be one of
the greatest achievements that we as a
team could have achieved by doing this
podcast it's something that I just think
I think people's much of their happiness
much of their fulfillment um much of
their health probably lies in the
pursuit of their potential whatever that
means and all of the opposite stuff much
of their dissatisfaction their
unhappiness probably lies in their um
their regret and their understanding
that they can and could have done more
in their lives I mean you think about
Brony we all the time that study she did
on those paliative patients where so
many of them wish they lived the life
true to themselves so many of them wish
that they'd taken that jump and pursued
that thing that was maybe a little bit
more
risky so what is the closing argument
here for those people that are trying to
unlock their hidden
potential well I think if if you look at
regret psychologist find that our
biggest regrets in the long run are not
our failures they're our failures to try
and it's it's the actions not taken that
we wish we could redo the
most I think finding the the motivation
and the courage to take those risks is
is not always easy for people and I
think one thing that I found helpful
over time that that has some good
evidence behind it is a lot of us know
we need other people's input in order to
get better so what we do is we ask for
feedback and the problem with asking for
feedback is you end up with a bunch of
cheerleaders and critics the
cheerleaders you don't fully trust
because they see you through
rose-colored glasses and they just
applaud your best self the critics are
devastating they attack your worst self
we want our coaches people who see your
hidden potential and help you become a
better version of yourself and see I
mean Steve you you've seen this forever
uh worldclass athletes and musicians and
actors have coaches we all need coaches
in our lives and they don't have to be
somebody we hire you don't have to have
a budget um there're people that you
rely on who are part of that challenge
Network who enable you to keep growing
so how do you get your cheerleaders and
critics to be better coaches what you do
is instead of asking them for feedback
you seek their
advice when you ask for feedback people
look at the past if you ask for advice
they turn to the Future and they become
more specific and More actionable in
giving you tips and
suggestions so if you go back um I I'll
give you the the personal example on
this one go back to the military leaders
that I taught who told me that uh they
gain nothing from my session but they
hope I learn
something uh I I've got a bunch of
critics in that situation and you know
they're they're demoralizing me I want
to give up I'm like wonder if I could I
could actually build the ability to
hibernate and then in a few months I'll
feel
better but I had committed to teach a
second session for these military
leaders and it was about a week later I
didn't have time to reboot all my
content and so I went to my critics and
tried to turn them into coaches and I
asked them for advice on what to do
differently in the next session and one
of them said a big mistake I made was I
led with my
credentials and uh I tried to convince
them that I was an expert well I was 25
years old these are season military
leaders they've got uh multi-billion
pound budgets they've got thousands of
flying hours under their belts they've
got Top Gun style nicknames uh I'm not
I'm not going to convince them that I am
more experienced than they are and this
this one person said you know you should
try calling out the elephant in the room
be a little more
vulnerable so I walk in the next week I
look out at the room and I say all right
I know what you're all thinking right
now what could I possibly learn from a
professor who's 12 years
old silence and then one guy call S
sandun jumps in and he says that's
ridiculous you got to be at least
13 they all vers out laughing it broke
the ice I more or less taught the same
material but the feedback was much more
positive afterward uh they told me that
although I was Junior in experien I
dealt with the evidence in an
interesting way and they liked learning
from somebody who was almost as young as
the Millennials they were they were
trying to lead and I learned from that
experience that the the very people who
were it felt like they were trying to
take me down if I asked for their advice
instead of their feedback they actually
gave me a tip That Built Me Up it made
me think about something that I learned
from reading work which is this
difference between self-promotion and
idea promotion as well um I actually
sent it to a friend earlier on my friend
runs a personal branding companies
called Ashley the company's called great
influence and he spends his time
basically helping leaders build their
personal brand and he'll often send me
things that he's seen online and when I
read about your concept of
self-promotion versus idea promotion I
realized that all the things he sends me
that are bad are self-promotion and all
the things that he sends me are good a
fundamentally idea promotion what is the
distinction just so we're clear I think
the the distinction for me is that
self-promotion is about saying look at
me let me tell you about all my
accomplishments and awards I'm going to
show off my trophies and I'm trying to
impress you and make you think that I'm
great idea promotion is saying I have
something worth sharing and I want to
elevate a product a service an insight
and people have dramatically different
reactions to the two right the first
comes across as narcissistic and
bragging and self-centered um the second
is actually seen as an act of generosity
um you're taking your knowledge and your
skills and you're trying to create a
gift for other people uh and hoping that
they receive it and I think this is so
important because a lot of people don't
share their ideas they don't put their
work out there because they're afraid of
looking like their self-promoting and
they are doing such a disservice to the
world um by not releasing their
creativity so so many people have a
problem with that so you know so many
people have a problem especially when
they're they're making a transition from
being someone who was quiet or silent to
that first post that first book that
first um and and part of that is because
of the impact it has on the people
that know you so for for me for example
the first time I wrote like a quote or
an idea online I felt that anxiety of oh
my God my friends from school are going
to think I think I'm like mahat Mandi or
like Nelson Mandela or something because
I'm sharing my ideas and the sheer fact
that I'm sharing my ideas means that I
think I've got good ideas and I think
I'm smart and so the best thing to do is
just not to share the ideas so that my
friends don't judge me for whatever
reason I managed to persist and I shared
an idea and I actually in the early
stages of sharing my ideas on the
internet I got some feedback from my
friend Jamie that told me one of our
mutual friends was like criticizing me
he was saying like who the [__] does he
think he is this was like n years ago
maybe who the [__] does he think he is
he thinks he's
Etc that was difficult persisted and I'm
so glad I did because it changed my life
and I think of so there's so many people
that are in that exact moment where
they've got ideas they've got skills
that they could share it would transform
their lives and add value to the lives
of other people but they're stuck
because yeah they're scared of it
feeling like self-promotion I believe
everyone has ideas worth sharing and
that we have a responsibility to not
deprive the people around us from
learning and I think the the Great thing
about the democratization of knowledge
is that anybody can access anybody
else's ideas uh and so I think there's
an opportunity for all of us to put our
thoughts out there this this might be an
unpopular opinion but I don't think the
framing as personal branding is helpful
because it it Center stages
self-promotion I don't want to have a
brand when people tell me I said
something on brand I feel like I've been
typ cast or I'm losing my authenticity
what I want is I want to have a
reputation I don't want to be a shiny
product that's packaged with a bunch of
slogans um I want to be somebody who's
known for a set of values uh and you
know one of those values is um is
original thinking and rethinking and
that means I should even disagree with
my own ideas if I don't contradict
myself I am failing to learn gosh I
remember after give and take came out uh
I got I got branded as the the nice guys
finish first guy for the givers over
taker message and I was so annoyed by
that first of all because a lot of
givers aren't nice um helping other
people is different from being polite to
them uh and the disagreeable givers were
a case in point of that and eventually I
was like maybe maybe my next book needs
to be called take and take and write
about why selfish [__] succeed just
because I'm I'm so committed to evolving
what I think and I don't think you do
that if you're trying to maintain a
personal brand uh that's you know that's
that's consistent in representing a
certain slogan I think you do that if
you're trying to live a set of
values
amen it really has made me rethink um
rethink not just the term personal
branding but really the purpose of the
true purpose of idea promotion is the
pursuit of truth right and knowledge and
um in the process of that you obviously
gain a ton yourself we talked about
earlier I think they they often call it
the Fryman technique where by writing
and sharing you're actually learning
more than anyone else I think it was
James clear that said the person that
learns more in any in any most in any
classroom is in fact the teacher but
this this this the importance of being
okay with being inconsistent being
continually wrong your old work can
contradicting your new work um is very
important but not easy to do because
because of the cognitive dissonance that
admitting your wrong creates this is a
central question of think again and I I
I'm I'm so struck um I originally
learned this framework from Phil tlock
and then I I started studying it I'm so
struck by how many people's spend too
many of their waking hours thinking like
preachers prosecutors and
politicians so when you go into preacher
mode you're prizing your own ideas in
prosecutor mode you're attacking
somebody else's ideas and in politician
mode you don't even bother to listen to
people unless they already agree with
your
ideas and I I I always like to ask I
find that that most people have a
dominant style that gets them in trouble
so mine is prosecutor mode if I think
you're wrong like it is my professional
and moral respons responsibility to
correct you which never goes well and
I've even been called a logic bully
which my wife had to explain to me was
not a compliment I think I'm a logic
bully are you I think so sometimes
fellow prosecutor I it's my it's maybe
this is an excuse so maybe I'm
bullshitting myself here but when I hear
an idea I think part of
my persuit of learning is by challenging
it and that's not always a good thing
especially when it's your girlfriend and
she's just trying to tell you something
and you're like no but
logically and I read this study and I
did this
podcast it's like you don't need to
interact with people like that all the
time I I make this mistake all the time
and I you know I Allison calls me out
regularly like you you you actually do
not need to argue with an idea to
understand it uh and you don't have to
pressure test every single you know
Point that's made um sometimes you can
listen and learn from other people as
opposed to duking it out to try to
figure out who's right and I think it's
such an important note because in
prosecutor mode you've already concluded
that other people are wrong and you're
right so you you lose the ability to
open your mind and the same thing
happens if you're preaching or
politicking uh you know you're you're
basically drinking your own Kool-Aid or
listening only to your own tribe and
trapping yourself in an echo chamber and
so I got really curious about how do we
how do we get out of those modes what's
an alternative and my favorite
alternative is to think think more like
like a scientist when I say think like a
scientist I do not mean that you need to
buy a microscope or you know a telescope
I mean that you don't let your ideas
become your
identity that you recognize every
opinion you hold it's just a
hypothesis you can test it every
decision you make just an experiment it
might it might succeed it might fail and
when you do that it turns out when
people people can be taught to think
more like scientists when you teach
people to see their opinions as
hypotheses their decisions as
experiments lo and behold they make
better choices they achieve more success
because they become more flexible they
change their minds faster they're
quicker to recognize that they're wrong
and that means they're quicker to get it
right but if if Jack had loads of ideas
and every single time any idea came out
of his mouth even if it was a good
morning and we all went Jack you're
you're so right it's hard to see how
Jack's self-esteem or his ego doesn't
take a boost there and him become more
committed to being right in the future
because cuz then imagine if we did that
for one year as an experiment then
suddenly we turn around one day and go
Jack what are you talking about that is
wrong you can imagine his his ego you
know swelling and going
what so I guess what I'm trying to say
is how difficult it is for us to
disassociate our selfworth with being
right yes yeah I've a colleague once
told me that the worst problem he sees
in humanity is the addiction to being
yeah and I think it's much more
important to focus on getting it right
than being right and one of the ways you
do that is you do not let your beliefs
become part of your
self-concept so people wait what what do
you base who are you if you're not what
you think you are what you value what's
the difference between values and
beliefs beliefs are what you think is
True Values are what you think is
important and I think this is such a a
critical distinction because when you
start to to base your identity your
sense of self and your your your ego and
your self-esteem and self-worth on what
you think is true then admitting you
were wrong is a major threat whereas
when you start to see yourself as
someone who values curiosity or is a
lifelong learner now changing your mind
is a moment of growth so a simple
example um before evidence-based
medicine there were a lot of um people
who call themselves doctors be like oh
you're feeling anxious let's give you a
frontal labotomy
you think that's an effective way to
treat anxiety that's a belief of yours
right if that becomes part of your
identity if you're if you see yourself
as a professional labotomy you are never
going to believe the evidence that this
is harmful if you see yourself instead
as somebody who helps treat anxiety and
that's your value the moment you read
the careful evidence saying this is not
working and it's also really dangerous
is the moment you change your mind and
so I think what this means fundamentally
is you have a set of principles that you
stay true to but you're very flexible
when it comes to your practices and
policies I'm G to do my very very best
Adam I try at your own risk yeah I'm
gonna try Adam thank you thank you for
all the work you do because you um you
forced me to challenge myself over and
over again in the in all the books
you've written But Central to all the
books you've written is the idea of
challenging oneself which I think is one
of the most important messages which is
just this continual Pursuit Of Truth
knowledge and um questioning the status
quo and then questioning that and I
think that that process of sort of
iterative experimentation that humility
that
um ability to maintain the student
mindset throughout your career is the
path to success in both your
professional Pursuits but also your
personal ones one of the things that's
really helped me in my relationships is
this idea of um remaining humble to new
information and facts you embody that as
a human being but you embody it in all
of your work and your work is original
and that's why it's so challenging
something I aspire to in the work that I
make is to to to go those extra lengths
to create wonderfully original work I I
sometimes sit on this show and I will
recommend someone to go and buy one of
the author's books but in in this case I
can't because I think people need to buy
them all they all offer something so um
challenging in a very important way the
hidden potential is the newest book
right that's the that's the brand new
that came out in October last year
didn't it mhm but they're all essential
books for different chapters and
different perspectives and different
phases of life so I'd recommend
everybody go by all three of the books
that I have in front of me here which is
the originals think again and hidden
potential get them as a nice little
package deal on Amazon because they are
really important books to push your
thinking forward and that's exactly what
you've done for me as an entrepreneur
you've pushed my thinking forward so a
huge thank you from myself but also for
the millions of people that have
benefited from your work thank you
that's incredibly generous of you and it
means a lot to me considering the source
because uh you are original and one of
the things I love about Diary of a CEO
is you are constantly challenging people
to rethink their ideas um and to try new
things and unlock their hidden potential
so um you're you're doing what I study
on this show and uh I think it's amazing
um and you know not anyone can make
Malcolm Gladwell
cry uh I uh I I I've known him for over
a decade I've never seen him break down
into tears before or since so uh well
done there wow before we wrap I I have a
couple questions for you oh go ahead uh
I snuck a couple in as we were going but
there there were a couple things I was
curious about if you're game I feel why
do I feel nervous you should I'm turning
the tables here you should feel
nervous isn't this cool every single
conversation I have here on the dire of
a CEO the very end of it you'll know I
asked the guest to leave a question in
the Diary of a CEO and what we've done
is we've turned every single question
written in the Diary of a CEO into these
conversation cards that you can play at
home so you've got every guest we've
ever had their question and on the back
of it if you scan that QR code you get
to watch the person who answered that
question we're finally revealing all of
the questions and the people that
answered the question the brand new
version two updated conversation cards
are out right now at Theon conversation
cards.com quick one if you guys have
heard me speak on this podcast before
about company culture and the secret to
building a world-class company you know
that everything starts with people which
brings me to our sponsor on this podcast
which I'm very excited to announce today
which is LinkedIn jobs the entrepreneurs
and business owners that listen to this
podcast you'll probably want to hear
this one so stay tuned for a second
whenever I'm looking to hire my first
Port of Call is LinkedIn jobs throughout
all of my companies this is our go-to
method of hiring and let me tell you why
firstly it's super easy it takes about
five minutes to create a free job post
on LinkedIn and secondly you can add a
hiring frame to your profile picture
allowing others to know that you're
hiring and lastly you can set up
screening questions which is linkedin's
way of helping you to find the best
possible candidate that matches your
needs and today I'm giving the D ofo
Community a free LinkedIn job post head
to linkedin.com
doac now and let me know how you get on
and terms and conditions apply that's a
free job post so go get it now uh first
question is where do you think your
hidden potential
Li I think my hidden my hidden potential
relies in what you would typically think
of more creative mediums like music and
uh theater and things like that I think
that's where my my hidden potentialized
and I think much of the reason I haven't
ever pursued it or unlocked it is
because I've lived under this limiting
belief that I don't have the right to
because I'm a my identity says
entrepreneur and time to your identity
yes and also because I'm just not good
at I'm not as good at it as people that
I think of as like musical or you know
it's only in re you're not good enough
yet exactly and okay so you're not
Beyonce today yeah
beonce but if I committed more time to
it and I could get over the initial
hurdle of the Delta between me and
Beyonce maybe I'd pursue it and maybe
I'd become it but I think that's where
my hidden potential lies is is in the
creative things and I think it's in part
cuz I have when you've succeeded at
something it reinforces your identity as
that thing and that can trap you in a
box it can uh what's something I can do
better as a podcast guest oh gosh um
question or writer or thinker or you
know anything when I think about great
podcast guest on this show what they do
well is they start with stories and then
they hit us with some kind of stat
Factor um study to reinforce that and
then they kind of follow with a
conclusion and we we I can tell in the
Preamble um whether the podcast is going
to do well basically based on that the
way that they deliver their information
I'll say sometimes I fail on that I
think there are a couple moments where I
started with the data because that's
where my energy begins where I could
have led with story yeah I think that
would maybe be it is one of I learned
from one of our speakers that the more
obscure and surprising the start of
their
response obviously the more the viewer
leans in so if I said for example um if
you asked me a question and then I
responded with
if I look into your left eye I can make
you fall in love with
me because it's so logic bully I don't
believe that for a second but I want to
hear more exactly and it's the lean in
and so I was thinking of Dr tus W for
example when she came on she she would
often start her her point with a really
obscure provocative open and it would
make you lean in before we started the
podcast I was like she is going
to bang as a podcast did the podcast put
out there 9 million views on YouTube
She's a Smash Hit And then she went on
to other people's podcast Smash It smash
It smash It smash It smash it and what I
identified in the Preamble was the way
she told stories you do that well if
there was an opportunity to close the
gap from the nine out of 10 you are to
the 10 of Excellence if that exists it
would be just to do that more frequently
something I'm trying to do so thank you
that that's enormously helpful and also
overly kind I uh I I think part of what
you're talking about is what the heath
Brothers have called a curiosity Gap
uh where you put out a puzzle and then
it
becomes social scientists actually talk
about it as an itch that you have to
scratch like I got to know more about
that and that that's what leads you to
to kind of um lean in on that I I think
that's a great note and that's
definitely something I need to work on
I'm always worried when I go on a
podcast that the story is too long and I
want to have a conversation as opposed
to just an interview and if I were you
know if I were writing it in a book or
if I were giving a talk on stage I would
you know I would of course tell the
story but like does the story interfere
with the the dialogue and I think I need
to let go of that because first of all
there's no reason why you can't tell a
short story and second of all some of
the best stories take a couple minutes
to unfold oh 100% I think all the best
things are are stories I think it's the
the way that the brain finds it most
compelling to learn um I'm going to have
the last question because it's a
tradition on this podcast where the last
guest leaves a question for the next
guest not knowing who they're leaving it
for so the question that's been left for
you they sign it that's unusual what is
your first historical rather than
personal memory I the first time you
realized there is a big world out there
unrelated to you and your friends and
family
wow what an interesting
question you know I don't know if this
was the first it's the most Vivid it was
1989 I was eight and I heard Billy
Joel's song We Didn't Start the Fire
and I had never heard of most of the
references in that song I was like
what's studa Baker I knew what
television was uh I like what happened
in North Korea and South Korea and I
ended up doing a project just a a
personal project to get the backstory of
every reference in that song and that I
didn't know it but that was the first
research project I ever did and I guess
it was foreshadowing wow that is an
obscure answer that I wasn't expecting I
was expecting some kind of like World
tragedy or something or that's so
interesting that's the one I remember
Adam thank you thank you this has been a
joy and an honor appreciate you so much
thank you right back at
you quick one from one of our sponsors a
lot of you have asked me the question
about hu over the years about where heel
fits into your life is it the most
healthy choice one can make when they're
thinking about what their nutrition and
here's what I would say to all of those
people I think in an Ideal World I would
be able to sit down and cook and prepare
all of my meals I think that would be my
ideal option but it because of the
nature of my life because I'm moving
around often what used to happen before
hu was I'd end up making bad choices I'd
end up snacking I'd have junk food
options on the go because I was busy and
my nutrition would come second to
whatever my professional priority was
what hu allows you to do is to have a
healthier option on the go that is
convenient that contains a lot of the
nutrients that you need to have a
complete diet and that's exactly where
it fits in my life they've now expanded
the range if you haven't yet checked out
the hu RTD I highly recommend you do go
to your local Tesco boots or sains spres
or online and you can grab and try one
there you need a podcast to listen to
next we've discovered that people who
liked this episode also tend to
absolutely love another recent episode
we've done so I've linked that episode
in the description below I know you'll
enjoy
it
[Music]
ah